Welcome to Baria Temple International Church's Podcast.
I am your host Timothy, and we're here together on this beautiful day to hear from God.
So let's all prepare ourselves to receive what God has in store for us today.
Let's begin.
So again, we're going to continue on.
We have just a few more, a couple more of these in our series of
We are church members.
We are AG church members.
And so this is our opportunity to continue on in that series.
And I want to start off by this.
There's a saying that the church rises and falls on leadership.
And I wanted you to consider
some findings from Francis Schaeffer from the Institute of Church Leadership Development, which has been studying the lives and ministries of pastors since 1989.
And here's some of the statistics.
And if you're following us along in the book, I am a church member, you will see there are actually significantly longer lists than what I've provided today.
But I just wanted to highlight a few.
90% of pastors report working between 55 and 75 hours a week.
50% feel unable to meet the demands of the job.
70% feel grossly underpaid.
80% of the pastors feel unqualified and discouraged in their role.
71% are burned out beyond normal fatigue.
70% can constantly fight depression, and only 23% report being happy and content in their identity in Christ, their church, and their home.
The statistics highlight the immense pressures that pastors face daily.
It's no wonder that scripture calls church members to vigilantly pray for their leaders.
Today our topic is, and if you are following along, you will know this is just the next one within this series of teachings.
And it calls for us as church members to pray
for our church leaders.
And so the message to this title today is I will pray for my church leaders as AG church members, we will pray for our church leaders.
Paul is the greatest champion of this idea.
And it appears several times in his letter to the churches.
I'm going to read several passages.
You don't have to turn there if you want to take notes.
You're of course more than welcome.
But in Romans chapter 15, verses 30 and 31, it says, Dear brothers and sisters, I urge you in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ to join in my struggle by praying to God for me.
Do this because of your love for me given to you by the Holy Spirit.
Pray that I will be rescued from those in Judea who refuse to obey God.
Pray also that the believers there will be willing to accept the donation I'm taking to Jerusalem.
Colossians chapter four and verse two to verse four.
Paul says, devote yourselves to prayer with an alert mind and thankful heart.
Pray for us too that God will give us many opportunities to speak about his mysterious plan concerning Christ.
That is why I'm here in chains.
Pray that I will proclaim this message as clearly as I should.
1 Thessalonians 5.25 is very simple and straight.
Dear brothers and sisters,
Pray for us.
You go to his next letter or the second half of the letter to the church at Thessalonica.
He writes in chapter 3 verses 1 and 2, finally, dear brothers and sisters, we ask you to pray for us.
Pray that the Lord's message will spread rapidly and be honored wherever it goes, just as when it came to you.
Pray
Two, that we will be rescued from wicked and evil people, for not everyone is a believer.
And then depending on who you attribute, the authorship of the book of Hebrews, whether Paul or whomever else starts chapter 13 and verse 18 says, pray for us, for our conscience is clear, and we want to live honorably in everything that we do.
Today, we see that scripture calls the church members to consistently pray for the pastor and the other
church leaders.
Shepherding souls is a huge responsibility.
And Satan knows that if he can take out the pastor, the leadership, the sheep will scatter.
It's easily referenced.
This isn't just a pandering statement.
We've seen in the last 10 years
very well-known pastors that you and I have both heard, read, studied.
Information has come out and they have fallen.
It's the way we say it in our nice way.
They have succumbed to sin.
And the churches, the ministries that they had, the ministries that God gave them, the platform that God allowed them to speak from, completely decimated.
over some kind of sin issue.
Your pastor and church leaders need your prayers more than you can ever know.
I believe that most all, if not every one of you, praise for me and my family, for the Thomasons, for our crew leaders, our divisional leaders, our deacons.
I know you are a praying group of people.
But as we consider today the responsibility church members have to pray for their pastor, I want us to consider, I think it's gonna be helpful to consider three practical areas of a pastor's life that we're asking that you would lift us up in prayer.
So three areas.
So if you're a note taker, this is where we're gonna jump in today.
So as church members, we're asking you to pray for the pastor and his family.
just simple, straight.
It's often been said that pastors and their families are locked a lot like living in a fish bowl.
You ever take your face and stick it next to the gold fish bowl and you look through the other side and everything's real big and distorted, right?
And so as ministers, being a pastor, being up in a place of any kind of
visual location.
So as a pastor, celebrities, we do the same thing to them.
What do we have with paparazzi who follow them?
And they take pictures of every little bits and pieces of their life.
And everything that they, oh, they had a kale smoothie.
They must be on a health thing.
We all need to be on a health thing, right?
But we blow it out of proportion.
No, they just had a kale smoothie because
Maybe they like kale.
No, that's not true because nobody likes kale.
But anyway, you get my point.
But as a pastor, we very much also live in this fishbowl.
People are constantly looking.
Everybody pays attention to see if the pastor and his wife ever have an argument.
I'm going to let you in on a little secret.
Yes.
Pure and simple.
We're a normal regular family.
We have disagreements just like everybody else.
There's people who are looking to see whether or not the kids are well behaved.
This isn't out of line.
Please don't misunderstand what I'm saying.
It's understandable that when we consider the biblical responsibility we have to manage our households well,
found in 1 Timothy chapter 3 and verse 5 says, if a man cannot manage his own household, how can he take care of God's church?
So it's reasonable, it's understandable that there are
visual markers and people are looking to see how the life of a pastor really is, but it doesn't change the fact that living in that fishbowl, there's however many sets of eyes on me from you guys right now, your eyes are on me, I'm speaking on the platform, but there's only my set of eyes on you at the moment.
This is an immense
that pastors and their families feel, and they feel the weight of this pressure constantly.
I can tell you, at every church we've served, my boys have felt the pressure of being the pastor's kids.
It is a very common, I'm gonna use the word ailment.
Typically, and it's about a 50-50 shot,
Pastors kids either end up growing up to absolutely love church in the ministry and love the Lord or they completely reject God and walk away from their faith and their parents' faith, one or the other.
And it almost always has to do with how they're treated and how they're perceived within the church.
That is a pressure that they have naturally.
because of the position that they hold within the church.
It's not something that's pleasant.
We don't talk about it a lot, but it is the reality of the world.
A pastor's wife has the pressure.
There was, when we were in Bible college, there was a unspoken expectation on women
in Bible college, whoa, you're coming.
So you all know, you're all educated, that you go to school to college, you get AA, a BA, a Masters, a doctorate, whatever.
And it was an unspoken or prodding joke that women only went to Bible school to get their MRS degree, to get married, to be a Mrs, rather than standing on their own two feet.
And it was an unexpected or unstated expectation that a pastor's wife would be beautiful, play the piano, and look good on your husband's arm, play the piano, and do women's ministry.
Well, then you had women who didn't fit that mold.
And so there is an innate pressure on the pastor's family because of this idea of being in the fishbowl
Tom Rayner writes in his, what did they do?
Get something out of order.
Okay, something has happened, gentlemen, we're losing, we've lost all of our slides.
So, I'm just gonna continue on, because we're not gonna be a slave to technology.
If you'll just put up the title slide and we'll leave it from there.
Rainer writes in his book, and this is where I would have had the purple, it says, he says, I've heard countless pastors worry about struggle over, about worry and struggle over their families.
They worry that they neglect their families because of the demands of the church.
They worry about their families living in a glass house.
They anguish when the critics direct barbs at family members, and we must pray, I'm sorry, we must be the prayer intercessors for pastors and their families.
Whether you like it or not, whether we know it or not, there are always critics.
There are always people who direct statements inadvertently, directly, indirectly at the pastor's family.
But here's the thing.
The pastor and their families are always under spiritual attack constantly.
Satan would love nothing more than to bring discouragement and discord into the life of the pastor.
One of the easiest ways for this to happen is to attack his family.
Pray.
Pray for the pastor and his family.
Now, whether you, lest you think I'm being self-serving, I'll mention this again at the end, but this isn't just about me.
This is not a sermon about Pastor Mike.
Whomever your pastor is, whether it's me, whether it's Pastor Jonathan and Pastor Sarah, me and Pastor Latisha, I have my own pastor.
I have somebody who shepherds me.
And I am called to pray for him because he is under attack on a regular basis.
And it is my job as one of his sheep to lift him up and to cry out to the Lord on his behalf, to stand in the gap
for my pastor.
So he always has some questions throughout the book that I think, again, I've been sharing with you.
And the questions there, what are your expectations of the pastor and his family?
And are these biblical expectations?
or are these like last week's message when we talked about personal preference?
Are these expectations that you have upon your pastor, your leader, your deacon?
Whomever it may be, are they biblical?
Do they line up with the biblical definition of what a pastor, a deacon, a leader, an elder, whatever may be?
And then do you pray for your pastor and his family on a regular basis?
Again, these are not questions to be answered out loud.
They're simply questions to make you say, hmm.
to make you think, questions to make you ponder where we are as a church.
We are A.G. church members.
We are committed to being people who pray, people who pray for our missionaries, people who pray for our church leaders, people who pray for our district leaders.
If you were to come on a Wednesday night to prayer meeting, we have a whole series of prayer points.
And several of those we have our national office and our national office leadership.
We rotate through the names of those that God has placed in our care, those who God has placed over us to shepherd us, our pastors together.
We have a prayer point for our district leadership and those people who God has called us to shepherd us over our district.
We pray for our missionaries, those people who were going and shepherding other flocks in our stead as part of the extension of this church.
We pray, insert shameless plug for prayer meeting here.
Come to prayer meeting.
If you're not coming, come to prayer meeting.
If you're not attending Wednesday night, if you don't have anything else, prayer meeting doesn't start until seven.
If you get off of work at five o'clock, that gives you about an hour and a half to get home, prep dinner, eat and get over here to the church.
Not that much time, we're here for an hour and a half from seven to eight thirty.
Come to prayer meeting.
If you're a note taker, point number two is that we ask as a church member that you would pray for the pastor's protection.
to say that the pastors have a target on their back is an understatement.
We have all heard stories of pastors who have failed morally.
We mentioned those a moment ago.
This is usually followed by great distress in the church and discord in the community.
There was one, actually I started to say one, there were three that happened within this last year that rocked the church world.
If you know who I'm talking about, you know who I'm talking about, we're not going to worry about naming names.
It's not worth it.
But it was a devastation to the church world at large because these were very well known.
It's not like it was a regional pastor who had a bit of notoriety and just, you know, something happened.
No, these were people on the national stage, pastors who had
prominence across cultures, across denominations, across ethnic groups, across people groups.
It didn't matter.
Their books, their messages were listened to and heard by thousands.
But what does scripture say about these kinds of men, about these leaders and their life
and ministry.
1 Timothy chapter 3 verses 1 to 13 says this.
It says they must be above reproach.
1 Timothy chapter 3 verses 1 to 13 says this is a trustworthy saying if someone aspires to be a church leader he desires an honorable position.
So a church leader must be a man whose life is above reproach.
He must be a faithful to his wife.
He must exercise control, live wisely, and have a good reputation.
He must enjoy having guests in his home, and he must be able to teach.
He must not be a heavy drinker or be violent.
He must be gentle, not quarrelsome, and not love money.
He must manage his own family well, having children who respect and obey him.
For if a man cannot manage his own household, how can he take care of God's church?
We read that a moment ago.
Verse six, a church leader must not be a new believer because he might become proud and the devil would cause him to fall.
Also, people outside the church must speak well of him so that he will not be disgraced and fall into the devil's trap.
In the same way, deacons must be well respected and have integrity.
They must not be heavy drinkers or dishonest with money.
They must be committed to the mystery of the faith now revealed and must live with a clear conscience.
Before they are appointed to deacons, let them be closely
examine if they pass the test then let them serve as deacons.
Verse 11 in the same way their wives must be respected and must not slander others.
They must exercise self-control and be faithful in everything that they do.
A deacon must be faithful to his wife and he must manage his children and household well.
Those who do well as deacons will be rewarded with respect from others and will have increased confidence in their faith in Christ Jesus.
That's an awful lot in a very small package.
When we consider what is meant by the words that I just read, we realize how important it is to lift up our pastors.
Satan is actively setting traps for pastors to fall into disgrace.
In our passage just a moment ago, 1 Timothy chapter three and verse seven,
He says, also, people outside the church must speak well of him so that he will not be disgraced and fall into the devil's trap.
Did we consider that?
Was that, again, we talk about being good students of God's word?
Have we stopped to consider that statement?
That's another one of those passages very often, most often, more often, maybe even always, we just read past as part of a grander statement.
But I can tell you, as a pastor, that part sticks out.
That's one of those, hey, here I am statements.
Rainer writes, he says, if we understand the full implications of that word trap, we wouldn't hesitate to pray for our pastor's protection.
The devil has devised a plan to bring the pastor down.
He has set a trap.
So realizing the enemies set a trap for me, for Pastor Jonathan, for Pastor Don Miller, for Pastor Doug Clay.
Does that change how you think about praying for those that God has given us over us in our spiritual authority?
Why do you think that the question that he gives us at the end of each part
Says, why do you think the devil is setting traps for pastors?
And knowing this, how much more urgency do you feel to pray for your pastor?
I don't know if you know this or not.
Maybe you do, maybe you don't, maybe it's irrelevant to you.
We run through a minefield for you.
on a fairly regular basis.
We navigate personalities, opinions, situations, all because we love God's flock and we've been called to serve them.
We do spiritual battle for you on your behalf.
as church leaders, whether it's the deacons of Berea Temple, both those current and former, whether it's pastors, church leaders, we pray for you.
Number three, if you are a note taker says,
as church members, as AG church members, we are to pray for our pastor's physical and mental health.
Have you ever had the responsibility to care for somebody else, maybe a child or an elderly parent?
We've had to do that.
We've had to care for my great grandmother.
She ended up with dementia.
She got to a point where we would sit now, and this is the woman that I was the closest to, as far as grandparents and things.
She and I had a very special connection, my great-grandmother, Dorothy.
I just called her grandma, Dorothy, her grandma.
And there was a day that she finally transitioned mentally from being cognizant to full-blown dementia.
She didn't know who I was anymore.
She didn't know my name.
She regularly would call me her Bryant, which was her brother.
She thought that she was a little girl.
And it was very painful.
It's very difficult.
And as much as that heard, as much of a burden as that was to have to care for her on a day-to-day basis, grandma, did you eat yet?
Grandma, I know you haven't eaten yet.
We need to feed grandma.
Have you gone to the restroom?
Grandma, it's time to get up.
Grandma, it's time to go to bed.
Grandma, you do want to move from here to there.
And as much of a burden as that was, there was also a joy, a blessing to be able to be the grandson who said, you know what, grandma, you took so much care of me when I was little.
She was the one who when my mom, grandma would have to go to work and leave me home.
She was the one who would come and care for me and babysit, if you will.
And so she would take me to Disneyland out in California.
She would take me on the trips because the woman who raised me, my grandmother, she had to work.
She worked 18 hours a day.
And so my great grandmother, Dorothy, was the one who would take me everywhere.
And she would do everything.
She would take me to baseball games.
Dodgers, not those other red guys.
So there was a blessing in the burden.
In the midst of the burden, there was a blessing to be able to say, hey, grandma, you did all of that for me.
And so now I'm going to give back to you.
I'm just going to do it.
See pastors experience the same burden in the care for the souls of those that are under the ministry that God provided him.
James actually warns us that not many should become pastors or teachers in chapter three and verse one of the book of James.
He says, dear brothers and sisters, not many of you should become teachers in the church for we who teach will be judged more strictly.
Pastoral ministry, whether you see this or not, is a burden.
It is a burden that we bear.
There are difficult days.
but it's also the richest blessing that we could ever have.
It is also one of the greatest joys.
Some of the greatest joys outside my family have been in the church as a pastor.
watching somebody give their heart and life to Jesus for the very first time after they've come to church for a week or two or 10 or 20 or years.
And finally, the message of the Holy Spirit has broken through.
And they've said, today is the day that I'm gonna give my heart and life to Jesus.
And knowing that at that moment they're never gonna be the same.
And somebody is praying.
All of a sudden you hear the utterance of the Holy Spirit and through their voice.
And the infilling of the Holy Spirit with the evidence of speaking in other tongues is coming forward.
There's no greater joy than that.
There's no greater joy than laying hands on somebody and them being healed.
We ask that you would pray for your pastor's physical and mental health as he seeks to care for the souls of the church.
Your soul and the souls that are around you.
Raina writes, he says, serving and leading a church well, expands all of the pastor's energy.
He is on call every day and every hour.
Because the demands are so great on him, the pastor often neglects his own health and wellbeing.
We should pray for our pastors' physical and mental health.
He needs wisdom to know what to preach and teach and how to present God's Word.
He needs wisdom dealing with us church members week after week.
And so as we end this particular point,
are two questions.
Why do you think pastors often overlook their own physical and mental health and what are some practical ways you can pray for and encourage your pastor in these areas?
As we close.
Our pastors and our church leaders.
And again, as I mentioned earlier, I said hour
Again, I don't want you to think that today's message is self-serving.
When I felt led of the spirit to teach this series to us about being a church member, this is just part of that lesson that was decided months ago.
As I stated, I have a shepherd who shepherds me just as I shepherd this flock.
These pastors carry a heavy burden.
They need our prayers for their family.
They need our prayers for protection.
And they need our prayers for their physical and mental health.
In like fashion, Rainer closes each of the chapters, each of the sections that he covers
In the book, I am a church member.
And again, if you would like a copy of that book and don't have it, I have extra copies in my office that I'm happy to give you.
It's a very thin, very small book.
He has a pledge for each of the messages.
And the pledge for this one says this.
It says, I am a church member.
I will pray for my pastor every day.
I understand that the pastor's work is never ending.
His days are filled with numerous demands that bring emotional highs and lows.
He must deal with critics, he must be a good husband and father.
Because my pastor cannot do all things in his power, I will pray for his strength and wisdom daily.
I can tell you as your pastor, whether you like me, you don't like me, you like the way I preach, you're not a big fan of the way I preach,
I covet your prayers.
There is a pressure of divine responsibility as the shepherd of a flock.
When we ordain ministers in the assemblies of God, so if you're familiar, we have three levels of what we call ministerial credential.
There is a certified minister
and there is a licensed minister.
Both of those are never intended to be held indefinitely.
They are intended to be training ground, starting points, to lead to ordination.
Because ordination is the only position in the Bible listed for ministers.
And when we ordain a minister,
In the Southern Missouri district, we are given, and I guess I could have wore mine, we are given what is called a mantle.
And it's just a shawl, a little strip, and it's at the moment of ordination, the district leadership lays their hands on the minister, and then they place the mantle of leadership on the minister's shoulders.
And Pastor Don has a story that he says, he's done this dozens and dozens and dozens of time.
And he says, as those mantles are laid on the minister's shoulder, he said it is visible across the line that you see the minister's shoulder sink under the weight, under the pressure of wearing that mantle.
So again, unless you think I'm just kind of moaning and groaning, there is a weight
of being your shepherd.
There is a weight of being my pastor, Pastor Don.
And I know he covets my prayers, just as I covet your prayers.
So here in just a moment, we're gonna, as we have been doing just for this series of I Am a Church, remember, we are going to prepare our hearts for communion.
If somebody would go and notify the children's church, please.
I want us to remember the importance of unity and support within our church body.
Why are we taking communion every week when we talk about being a church member?
Because there is a unity that happened at the table.
On the night that Christ was betrayed, they took bread and they broke it.
And he said, this is my body that is broken for you.
As often as you do this, as often as you do what?
You gather together, you come around the table.
He says, do this in remembrance of me.
And then at the end of dinner,
He takes the cup and he says, as often as you do this, this is my blood.
This is the new covenant that I am giving to you.
As often as you drink of this, as often as you come together, do this in remembrance of me.
There was a unity that happened at the table.
There was a familiarity, a camaraderie, a joining together of the disciples.
coming together as one, coming together as a unified group.
And so as we have come and we talk about being church members, being a member of the church is about joining together.
Being a church member isn't shouting your name on the legal line so that we can satisfy a federal government mandate.
Being a member of the church is joining our hearts together.
and locking arm in arm with other brothers and sisters and says, hey, listen, we're going to join together and we're going to sing and we're going to lift up the name of Jesus to the body of Christ.
It's coming together and saying, hey, the group of us, we're going to lock together with them and we're going to teach and we're going to preach and we're going to bleed Sunday school and we're going to teach
prayer meeting and whatever else it is, it's coming together and saying, hey, while you guys are doing that, I'm gonna go over here and I'm gonna hold on and I'm gonna shepherd Pastor, as Pastor Leticia shared with us one day, we're gonna shepherd the littlest of these because even though we're nursery workers, we are the very first pastor that these little ones ever have.
And we come together because there is unity at the table.
And so we come together and we take communion together.
And so as we do that, communion is a time to reflect also on Christ's sacrifice.
Because He did it for us to send us in unity to be His hands and feet in a lost and dying world.
Just as we are nourished by the bread and the cup, let us nourish our pastors, our leaders,
with our prayers.
As we partake in communion, as we come together in unity, let's commit to hold our leaders, our pastors, our teachers up in prayer, committing ourselves to pray for them, just as Christ had committed Himself to us.
So here's how today is gonna go.
Each week we've done communion, we've done it a little bit different.
Rather than settling into a simple routine, today for communion, we your pastors are gonna serve you communion today.
Right where you're at, you can stay right where you're at, we're not gonna ask you to come down this time.
See, we've asked you to serve us today
by praying for us.
We've asked you to hold us up in prayer.
So today, we're gonna serve you.
We're gonna come and bring the elements to you.
So pastors, I've already spoken.
If you'll come and take your place, I'll serve you in just a moment.
You'll just come and stand at the altar.
If everybody else will bow your heads,
Let's pray over our communion time.
Heavenly Father, we come before you with grateful hearts and thankful for the sacrifice of your Son, Jesus Christ.
As we prepare to partake in this time, this communion, we remember that your body was broken and that your blood was shed for the forgiveness of our sins.
Lord, we acknowledge this immense responsibility and pressures that
Our pastors, our church leaders, our district, our national leaders carry.
We lift them up to you now, asking for your divine protection, strength and wisdom.
Father, we pray that you would surround their families with your love and peace, shielding them from the enemy's attacks.
We ask that you would be everything that they need.
And as we take this bread and drink it from this cup, may it be a reminder of our commitment to support
and to pray for our leaders.
Help us be united in love and purpose.
Help us to serve one another selflessly as you have served us.
Cleanse our hearts, renew our spirits, and draw us closer to you and to one another.
Let this communion time be a reflection and renewal.
Strengthening our bond as a church family
and our dedication to your service.
In the mighty name of Jesus, we pray.
Amen.